What do you want to do here?
Well, I'm going to use... I'm interviewing you.
I'll explain to you.
I'm writing a book.
I'm finishing a book right now that will be published next year by HarperCollins.
It's a publisher here in New York City.
Who is the publisher?
HarperCollins.
It used to be Harper and Roe.
It's a good publisher.
And it's a companion volume to my first book,
This book is about libraries.
I'm going to send you a copy.
Yes, I promise.
I'll send it.
I'll be home tomorrow.
I'll send it Thursday.
I'm writing now about libraries and books as a means to preserve culture, as a means to preserve a heritage.
libraries through history, libraries.
Of course I'm very interested.
You are writing the book as what you said?
Yes.
As what?
A book about libraries, about books, about people, about librarians, about books and libraries as instruments to preserve culture.
I see.
So I'm very interested in your experiences.
in Vilna and also here.
Did you see my little speech?
I have it.
Yes, I love it.
I've read it.
It's very nice.
I'm interested.
You were a librarian in the 1930s.
In what?
You were a librarian in Vilna.
Yes.
Can you tell me a little bit about what drew you to... To librarianship?
Yes, yes.
I grew up
A little bit of my biography is in the Evo Annual, Volume 22, I think, or 21.
I wrote an article called, The World of My Parents.
Now, my parents were teachers, both of them educated teachers, who at that time, it was the turn of the century,
received a higher education in Russia.
That was rather, so my parents belonged to the class which in Russia is prominently distinguished as the intelligentsia, not bourgeoisie, maybe the
the little bourgeoisie but it was a separate class of people with higher education who rose from their so to say rather rose from their milieu it means their on the side of my father
My family was in agriculture, they were farmers, Jewish farmers.
But one of my grandfathers, the farmer, was a muskyl.
You know what a muskyl means?
A muskyl, it's a very important thing for you to know.
Muskyl means about enlightenment, Jewish enlightenment.
Very nice.
I like it.
you see so there were in Eastern Europe even people of you know not already starting to be educated by themselves if they were if they heard something about Mendelssohn about the Enlightenment period in Germany and then when
This Enlightenment period influenced the development of this group of partisans of Enlightenment in Vilna and Vilna surrounding.
So Vilna became the centre of his European Enlightenment.
Vilna is called Jerusalem of Lithuania.
And you could probably read about it a little bit.
I don't want to waste your time.
I have actually, yes.
But my mother was the daughter of a rabbi who was already an enlightened rabbi, an employer of the rabbimate in Vilna, so that the rabbimate could be an intermediary between
So much.
And I feel that it's not to the point, maybe.
Everything is good, yes.
So, you see, there was a rabbinical institute, a rabbinical school in Russia, two of them.
One was in Zhutomir, one was in Mila.
So this rabbinical school was supposed to prepare
government rabbis, so they could be intermediary between the government and the Jewish population.
But the rabbinical school became a source of enlightenment.
You see all the students in the rabbinical school, which was taught in Russian, became in a way radical.
And they were trying to follow the German example of enlightened Jews.
So this was my well-known on the mother's side.
It means the mother was already a daughter of a rabbi who went to an academic institution and had already education.
The education was in Russian, so our home was Russian-speaking.
My father graduated from the teachers' institute also in Vilna.
There was also a very major teaching institution for teachers
Jewish elementary schools.
So for you it's enough to know that both parents had higher education and a very good command besides Swedish or Russian.
So at our home that was a private library and a good library.
We had all the classics of
Russian literature.
So it's interesting, you know, how this Russian culture and education penetrated the, I would say, the classes of , and how this was transmitted to the children because of their private
interests and care to provide libraries for their homes.
Every home of an intelligent person had a library.
So that was the beginning of our familiarity with literature.
Then we were sent to Yiddish schools.
because my adolescent years were already in interwar Poland.
Interwar Poland means 1919 to 1939.
And this was the period when the culture of Yiddish began to flourish and be the prevalent culture.
for the intelligentsia in Yiddish in Vilna.
So through the school where the language of instruction was Yiddish, we started to read Yiddish literature.
And we had the luck of having two outstanding personalities in the Yiddish literary field.
two teachers.
One of them was Moshe Kulbak, which is one of the most prominent poets in Yiddish.
He was a teacher of Yiddish literature.
The other was Max Eric, who was from Western Poland, and he was very good in Polish literature.
So we had
very talented teachers, both of Yiddish and Polish literature.
So that's how we were introduced to the books of others.
And I remember the saying of Moshe Kulberg.
She says, he says, I see that every
member of the Jewish Intelligencia, should know by heart the works of Hugh Llanet Parrot, or at least know what has been published and some of the stories.
And I remember that his teaching consisted in letting the children tell in their own words the stories of parrots, and I remember
one unforgettable episode, when he let me speak about Peretz's story, The Three Gifts.
It's a very famous story in this collection of... I will show you the volume in which this story is included.
You see, I already am ninety years old, so I'll forget a little bit.
You come to work every day here?
I come to, I try, but it's, you know... You've never thought of retiring?
I could not retire, because that's my life.
I mean, I come home, so I also start reading, or now
Unfortunately, their newspapers and periodicals occupy so much time.
Things which you have to produce, you know, that I cannot read fiction.
But that was my love, fiction.
Fiction was, yes.
As a librarian, too?
As a librarian, too, as much as time is allowed.
But, of course, one has to adjust our reading to the needs of the public.
I started to work in the library of the Central Jewish Education Committee, which was the Central Yiddish Education Committee, which carried mostly Yiddish books, and children at that time still read Yiddish books.
And what is interesting, that they liked very much non-Yiddish authors translated into Yiddish, like Mark Twain.
No kidding.
Yeah, that's surprising.
Mark Twain and Jules Verne.
Jules Verne.
And this is in Vilna?
Indeed.
And the books of Jules Verne was published in America, also for popular reading.
And they were our copies in the library, were so worn out as I explained it.
I described my work a little bit in a book, in a Yiddish book, and then I have a translation of these recollections of my work.
So why did, you know, like one professor at civil university,
wrote about children's literature in Swedish.
So it's accepted that Sholem Aleichem has two volumes of stories for Jewish children.
So everybody accepts that he was a writer for children.
But his stories were little for adults, more than for children.
He's famous.
one of the classics, which is not, which did not die.
He's known in the West.
He's known, even in Russia.
There are many translations.
His name was Rabinowitz, I think.
Rabinowitz.
And there is another one, Abramovich.
So, you see, so the children like adventure stories and happy stories, and that's what they found in Mark Twain or in
But Jewish stories about Jewish children are not necessarily heavy stories, nor adventure stories.
How many books here do you work with?
How many books here do you work with, would you say?
Now, imagine there is a lot of things about books.
You correspond with writers of the book.
Sometimes in the Yiddish field now,
arise new writers, new names.
They come from Russia.
They try to recover their past.
They come here?
Yes.
Some of them are in Israel, they write to us.
Some of them are here, but in different cities, so we correspond.
But there was a time when there is such a implication
book annual.
Have you seen that?
No?
I'll show you.
I have it here.
So when I started working here, the Ivo's task in the field of Jewish books was since Ivo emphasized Yiddish.
So to collect information about the Yiddish book, he published a list of new Yiddish books
in the annual edition of the annual.
So I had to look through all the Yiddish books which appeared during the year.
And there were about 200, 150 Yiddish books during the year.
You have to look at them.
You have to learn how to, so to say, describe a book in short.
And of course you were,
drawn in into the book and sometimes I remember I was sitting until eleven o'clock at night here and reading or compiling such a leaf.
So at that time I had a very contact with books, Jewish contact with Yiddish books and responsibility.
And then when I got older, another librarian, Zachary Baker, which is
already a very known librarian, and I showed you, I can show you what he did also in Evo.
So Evo's responsibility, first of all, is for Yiddish books.
And Yiddish books, unfortunately, decreased in popular, in, I mean in readership.
There is a place in Massachusetts
I wrote about him in my first book.
When I sent you the book, Aaron Lansky, National Yiddish Book Centre.
Book Centre, you're right.
So, the production of Yiddish books decreased considerably lately.
It's less young authors.
It's mostly a generation from before the war.
who writes in Yiddish as a mother tongue.
How important is it?
You must know the collection so very well.
I imagine your greatest service today is explaining the collection to people who come in.
Would you say that's it?
Not exactly, but of course I have an idea of what collections we have.
This library
This library is an inheritor of another Yiddish library which was founded in the late 30s by Mendel Elkin, who was an amateur who has a lot of connection with the Yiddish literary world.
established a library for Yiddish readers in America.
He established it here?
Here.
But he also took care of connecting his library to the Vilna library and in a way fed books to Vilna and the
On the other hand, also received books from Poland, books which were published in Poland and received here.
So he was the nucleus of our library.
When the Evo found out what is going on in Eastern Europe, they transferred.
You mean what was going on with the Germans?
With the Germans and the Russians.
so the Russians did not allow the Evo library to serve the public because it contained not only communist books so it was a terrific censorship even during short Russian rule so it means in 1940 the Evo library was transferred here the history of the Evo library I wrote
And then it was improved by Zachary Bacon and Bella Weinberg too young.
I've read it, yes.
I've seen it.
So it has many collections.
It has the books which was found here in America by private collectors and they were collected by Mendel Adkin.
Then after the war started to come, the books looted by the German from Germany.
It is amazing to me that those books survived.
Yes, you see.
The story of how those books survived is amazing to me.
Yes, so how did they survive?
The German appointed, it's also a whole story, appointed
Jewish experts.
I mentioned that.
Yes, I've read this.
So some of the Jewish books were considered rare and they saved them.
But besides that, in the beginning they did not discriminate very much and they shipped home
the Jewish libraries, the Fraschul library, very famous in Wiener, they shipped to Germany.
And we started to receive these books from Germany.
So it means the books looted by Germans and shipped to Germany.
Some of them were sent directly to us because they had the Wiener stamps.
And some of them were
returned to us by the organization called Jewish Cultural Reconstruction, headed by Salo Barone and Hannah Ironman.
So, this library has books from Vilna, which belong to the Yibo and which belong to the Sresho Library.
And within the Sresho Library there are not only Yiddish books, but also Hebrew books.
a great deal of religious quarry.
Tell me, if you could, in your words, how important it was to save these books during the war.
Why it was so important?
It was important, first of all, by the fact itself that they went through the Nazi war machine and well
but considered survivors of a civilization, you could say.
Then it was important to revive a center which would emphasize the cultural treasures, the book treasures of a major
cultural center in Europe.
So this would, so to say, to save the books which was in the center of Jewish culture.
You understand what it means?
People risk their lives, people risk their lives to save books.
To save books.
So, this was the Sutsky-Varka-Cherginsky team, which is described, I think, by Dr. Fishman.
Yes, I have that.
And who, Sutsky-Varka-Cherginsky book about Mira, which is described.
And there is a Sutsky-Varka-Cherginsky collection here.
Really?
So these books were then found in the underground, you know, hiding places and then recovered.
And then the problem was how to bring them from here.
So some of them, in this little book,
Ashes, what is it first, Saved from Fire or something, I have this book here by David Fishman, he will tell you it's more difficult, he brought this book from Vilna to here.
So the direct shipment of books after the war was a very risky situation.
Even after the war?
Yeah, even after the war.
Because the Lithuanians, the Soviets, and then the Lithuanians did not want to send it abroad.
The Lithuanian government, for instance, even if the books did not belong to the National Library.
When you came to this country, and I understand you escaped from a train, is that right?
Did you know that you would work as a librarian when you came here?
No, I didn't know that I worked as a librarian, but I worked in Smith College.
The first job was at Smith College.
It's because my Polish professor, I studied at the Polish University.
Polish professor was teaching at Smith College.
He met my father.
He found out that I escaped, and he provided me with a job.
in the library in the Russian and Polish acquisitions.
So I helped in this area.
I did not have a formal education.
And then father was in New York and he knew the management of Ivo and Ivo already inherited this wonderful library and needed somebody
who would know Yiddish and Polish and Russian, so they invited me eventually to be an assistant librarian, and then I was even the head librarian for a certain period of time.
Was that a very rewarding period for you?
Yes, it was.
because the library was constantly enriched, you know, by these books which was rescued from Germany and because it was in the center of Yiddish cultural life in New York.
So there was a contact between the librarian and the literary world of New York, Yiddish literary world of New York.
And then there was this possibility of making lists of books or even short summaries of Yudish literature and for the Britannica Yearbook, which was an achievement of interest to Yudish literary world.
all were included.
I think the Encyclopedia Britannica had a year ago.
What's the most satisfying aspect of your job?
What do you find most satisfying in this work?
Well, it was these literary records, skipping literary records of Jewish books, and then the contact with people looking for information.
Now, the contact
was because Dr. Wilder himself taught Yiddish.
He was the first to introduce Yiddish in academia.
So he brought sometimes groups of his students to the library explaining to them that Yiddish was a language
was aware of world literature which had some translations.
So sometimes I had to prepare exhibitions of these books for his students.
Then it was the scholarly board.
Sometimes scholars would come to find out about the Holocaust, which was for scholars of the Holocaust.
What can you find here?
If you are a scholar of the Holocaust, what can you find here in the collections?
What kinds of things can you find?
There was a project in the beginning, in the 1950s, together with Yad Voshem, we tried to list all the books in the Yiddish language and then in the Hebrew language.
So whatever has been written on the whole of us, we try to get and register it.
And even articles also.
So these participants in the project used the newspapers and books.
So we had a contact with the DP in Germany.
and they sent us all which they produced.
So it was kind of a contact with the survivors' war and their desire to express, to tell what happened.
So it was a need for that centre which would bring Eastern Europe to here.
I would say Evo as a center for East European study, Swedish, Hebrew, and in the native language, in the Polish, and many, many Holocaust survivors.
If there wasn't a Evo, what would happen to this material?
Would that constitute a loss of your culture?
I'm sure about that.
we introduced not only a source for Yiddish and East European material, including Grafshin material.
The Soviet literature is very well represented, the Soviet Jewish literature.
So this was a centre for East European material.
And in general, our publications still, you know, had many representatives of scholarship in Eastern Europe, like Cherikovar, Leszczynski, who else?
Some other...
Trug was one who wrote a book about human wrath.
There was a story in the New York Times a couple of years ago about some materials they found in Vilna in an old Catholic church that they wanted to bring here.
It's still over there.
They haven't got them here yet.
They wanted to bring them here.
The Lithuanias would not let out.
It's terrible.
And what happens to that material?
Is it, is it... I cannot tell you exactly what is now happening.
There was a delegation in the... Zachary Baker, in this introduction, from the speech, he tells... Yeah, I'll call him.
He's out in California now.
Yeah, yeah.
Or you could speak to Pearl Berger.
Berger.
She was a member of the
of this delegation, so they would know better about what is the fate of these books which belong to Evo.
Now, you were 90 years old in May, I guess.
You had your 90th birthday.
Did you come to work on your birthday?
Did I come to work?
No, I don't.
What telephone is that?
You see that you are working for inspirational material.
And my material is so bright, what can I tell you?
No, you're doing very well.
I'm really interested.
You've been involved with this organization for 60 years.
That's a long time.
Yeah.
So what can I tell you?
Well, just the satisfaction, I guess.
You devoted an entire life to books and to libraries.
Yes, of course.
I liked very much the work I did.
So as I told you, because it was an intellectual activity, it was a contact with the literary, with survivors who had some
intellectual interest and wanted to leave a record of their experiences and the contact with the personnel of Ivo, especially Dr. Weinreich.
Of course, Dr. Weinreich was not available every day in my work, but I knew that
he's there, that he's interested in what is going on, that the library is important for him.
And he was a personality.
He represented a certain ideology and it was, it was
rewarding to work for somebody who would appreciate, who would, so to say, be the leading spirit of the organization, and he would have a goal of developing Jewish science in a country which was new.
to this type of science which he represented.
So it was some kind of a pioneering activity.
And I think that the American Jewish community appreciated that.
And it is very inspiring that this American Jewish intelligentsia, maybe not
not necessarily the masses who were very working people who just read the Yiddish paper, but there was an American, young American audience, educated, who started to show understanding and interest for the heritage of Eastern Europe.
These people who saved the books are great heroes, of course, aren't they?
Who saved the books.
Who actually saved them during the war.
There were many survivors who saved the books.
They probably understood that too.
Do you think they understood that maybe they wouldn't survive but the books might?
Yes, of course.
Do you think they understood that?
It was an organised activity.
in the Jewish ghetto and people used the library for their own need and also followed the instructions of the Jugendrat to save books and bring them to the center.
So the population of the ghetto was aware of books and considered it a treasure.
And the importance of... I read where in Prague
there was going to be a museum.
Are you familiar?
The same way the Germans were going to save the books, they wanted the Jewish books?
The Germans.
The Germans did.
And then in Prague they were going to have a museum of an extinct race.
Are you familiar with that, that in Prague they were doing some kind of thing?
Not in a great detail, but there is information that in Prague they want to organize.
center to show the pernicious and extinguished already culture of European Jews.
But to keep museum artifacts, but to keep artifacts, they would keep the artifacts.
Oh yes, sure.
I don't want to take up too much of your time.
I did want to, I know you go home at four, so I want to
I read a lot about you, so I have a lot of the background already, so we don't have to cover a lot of the background.
I understand that, I mean, you probably want something interesting and I, so to say, tell you just generalities.
It would be much better to give you an example.
I'd love an example.
Like, for instance, can you give me an example of how you help somebody who comes in and is looking for something, and the satisfaction that you have in finding something?
So look, this is what I could remember.
A man came from Israel with his family, and he remembers that as a child,
A young adolescent, he left Warsaw with a stream of refuges.
With a stream of refuges.
He left Warsaw in 1939.
But when he was in the pre-war years before, so he left Warsaw in a very dramatic period.
The Germans suddenly attacked Warsaw.
and the Jewish refugees like Krug and others start to leave Warsaw because the male population understood that they were the first to be exterminated.
So he left in Warsaw and of course lost everything.
He survived by wandering as a child through
It wasn't easy for the children to reach Israel.
It was a long road to Israel until they wandered through Russia and through Asiatic Russia until they got to Israel.
In Israel, he was, of course, a child and got the Israeli education.
Now, when he reached the middle age, he wants to go back to his memories of life in Warsaw.
He remembers that he went to a Yiddish school, and he wants very much to know what textbooks they used in the Yiddish school, how to find them.
And we did find it.
And he recognized the textbook which he used in the Yiddish school with stories by the Yiddish writers like Sholem Aleichem and Abram Reitim.
And the school years in the Yiddish Warsaw came back to him.
And he was crying when he read and saw this book.
Now, how did we find a textbook for me?
It's because our catalogue was organised in the way that we had, you know, an alphabetical catalogue, and there were many Yiddish-language textbooks, but we had many authors, I mean, in the Yiddish catalogue.
but we have already, already had a subject catalog, and we had a subject catalog for Yiddish catalog, and I found for him those which were published in Warsaw.
So it was something which brought to him his childhood, which he abandoned in such a panic, and which disappeared completely, and this woman,
of recollection of his school years were an unforgettable experience for him.
That's a nice story.
That's a lovely story.
I love stories like that.
You love.
So I understand that a story like that would make it alive, what this library could mean.
What it means to people, to an individual.
Yes, what it means to people.
what I would like maybe to recall a little more about that.
But I, you know, in the life of a busy librarian, we don't have the time to make a note of such stories.
But such a story leaves a trace in myself.
For myself it was an experience which would be very familiar to me.
And of course you help scholars all the time.
We have all the time.
Things going back to this period of Poland, to the pre-war period of Poland.
I do remember the presence of such scholars as Dr. Jacob Schachty.
This name is familiar.
So that was some interesting
Dr. Schatzke himself was a pyrrheophile.
He had a tremendous collection of books and his special interest was Warsaw.
The Evo published three volumes of his history of Jews in Warsaw.
And he studied
for these books he studied the Yiddish dailies, Heinz and Momeni.
Since he was cut off from the archives and documents, at that time connection with Poland was difficult, it was in the 50s, he used the Yiddish dailies,
which he found in Deep's library.
So you have the dailies here too?
You have newspapers here?
Yes.
Oh, that's wonderful.
That's what is a very special trait of Deep's library.
Yiddish daily newspapers, Yiddish and Polish, Yiddish language and Polish language, Jewish newspapers.
Do you have them in microfilm?
We have them in microfilm.
We have them in the original, too, but mostly in the microfilm.
So this contact with Dr. Shotsky, who studied the material for writing his books, was very interesting for the librarian because of his demands or his suggestions which he made to a librarian.
That's wonderful.
I'd like to take a couple, do you mind if I take a couple of photographs of you?
Yeah, okay.
Can I take a couple of pictures at your desk?
At my desk, yes.
You're telling me important things.
I would stop.
But you said your mother was a storyteller and your father was a journalist.
My mother was a teacher, but she was a wonderful storyteller.
And so you're the editor of this?
You're the editor?
I am the editor plus somebody else.
Usually you look at the title page.
I just want to get the date on it.
This is brand new.
This is out just now.
I was happy to...
Can I get a copy of this?
A copy?
I will make.
All you make.
Have done.
Why don't you sit down at your desk and I'll take it.
And make a nice face.
Oh, you've got a beautiful face.
You didn't have to work hard at that at all.
Oh, that's nice.
I'm going to get a couple of pictures.
I want to get a couple of pictures, not just one.
I feel that I have to reward you much more than I did.
You're doing very well.
Let me get another one.
Now, you will leave me your name and address?
Yes, my card is out in my bag.
They made me leave my bag at the door, so my cards are out in my bag, but I'll get you my card.
If you leave me that.
I'm going to send you a copy of my book tomorrow, and I'll put my card in that.
Thank you very much.
And I'll do that as soon as I get back.
I think our head librarian wants to talk to you also, to see you again, or to talk about your book.
Excellent.
This is a book collection which is not found.
No, it's unique actually.
What are you looking for?
No, I was just looking for this here.
This is a unique collection in your unique person.
You know, the Vilna was really
Jerusalem of Lithuania which means so many libraries were there, so many books were there, so much of Jewish culture was concentrated there despite of the difficulties of sometimes the hostile environment or sometimes it was simply indifferent, not supportive and sometimes it was even hostile.
And it's so fortunate that it's
A lot of it has been able to be transplanted here.
That's right.
So that's why this place is so unique, that he tries to preserve the artifacts.
And you have been here for most of it, most of the time.
I wouldn't say.
The formative years were 1940s to 40s.
But you've been here for 50 years now.
But I have been here for a long time.
But I must tell you that we are lucky that we got, as I say, the society or the community which was responsive to what we were trying to do.
So despite of, you know, the strangeness or the, I mean,
for some American Jews who did not know, even for the younger generation, the interest in Jewish roots and in the past of Ethiopian Jewry remains.
And that sustains us.
We have now young people who want both to learn Yiddish and to do something for our
lost history.
Okay, dear, I am trying to say something meaningful.
You have only filled an hour worth of paper.
It's quite wonderful.
Okay.
In Vilna now, it has the stamp of 1939.
Yes.
No, not 1939.
But this has the stamp of, tell me again what that is.
Now that's the stamp.
You said that's the stamp.
And this is, you see, this stamp shows that it belonged originally to the famous Strashun Library in Vilna.
Then it was inherited.
by the library of the Jewish community in Vilna.
And then it was returned to us because it was a YIVA publication.
So it was yours.
It belonged to you.
When do you think it came here?
Do you think it came here before the war?
I think it came here with... No, no, not before the war.
Afterwards.
After the war.
After the books were found.
So this is one of the books that was saved?
Oh, that's great.
That's wonderful.
Yeah, that's really wonderful.
And it's 1933.
What is the title of it?
Can you tell me?
This is, yeah, Writings for Psychology and Pedagogy.
And what was the last word?
And this is... Writings for Psychology and what else?
And Education.
Oh, okay, sure, yeah.
Wilna, 1933.
That's Wilna there.
That's right.
Wilna, 1933.
And this is the Jewish Yiddish and Wissenschaft institute.
Department of psychology and pedagogy and education.
They had... It was... No.
Its original name was Jewish Scientific Institute.
That was the original name.
renamed later.
Is this the original binding?
Yes.
And that's the original shelf mark, 53.3.J.
So is that the shelf mark in the old library?
It was the shelf mark of the Jewish community library.
In Vilna?
Yes.
So we even know where it was in the library?
We do know.
Do you have the catalog from the old library?
Was that preserved?
Yes, we do have, not complete yet, but we do have a catalogue of the Vilna books.
So even if all the books didn't survive, you still have a catalogue, you know what books there were.
Oh yes, there was a catalogue of the Strachung Library, printed catalogue of the Strachung Library.
There was no printed catalogue of the YIVO Library.
Yes, but all the books which we got back from the Yibo library have a stamp, Yibo library, so it can, and it forms a special collection.
Excellent, yes.
Special collection here.
Special collection of books rescued from Vilna.
That we have.
We don't have yet a complete catalog.
We have a complete catalog of our Yiddish family.
Yes.
There are five values, and if you would have... Would you point to that book again?
Thank you.
So it's a little bit chaotic.
Sir, when you describe this interview, could you send me a copy?
Of course.
And we will perhaps have to make a little bit of correction.
Oh, absolutely.
Here is your camera.
That's excellent.